Previous: Output formatting in ptx, Up: ptx invocation   [Contents][Index]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

7.5.5 The GNU extensions to ptx

This version of ptx contains a few features which do not exist in System V ptx.
These extra features are suppressed by using the -G command line option, unless
overridden by other command line options. Some GNU extensions cannot be
recovered by overriding, so the simple rule is to avoid -G if you care about
GNU extensions. Here are the differences between this program and System V ptx.

  • This program can read many input files at once, it always writes the
    resulting concordance on standard output. On the other hand, System V ptx
    reads only one file and sends the result to standard output or, if a second
    file parameter is given on the command, to that file.

    Having output parameters not introduced by options is a dangerous practice
    which GNU avoids as far as possible. So, for using ptx portably between GNU
    and System V, you should always use it with a single input file, and always
    expect the result on standard output. You might also want to automatically
    configure in a -G option to ptx calls in products using ptx, if the
    configurator finds that the installed ptx accepts -G.

  • The only options available in System V ptx are options -b, -f, -g, -i, -o,
    -r, -t and -w. All other options are GNU extensions and are not repeated in
    this enumeration. Moreover, some options have a slightly different meaning
    when GNU extensions are enabled, as explained below.
  • By default, concordance output is not formatted for troff or nroff. It is
    rather formatted for a dumb terminal. troff or nroff output may still be
    selected through option -O.
  • Unless -R option is used, the maximum reference width is subtracted from
    the total output line width. With GNU extensions disabled, width of
    references is not taken into account in the output line width computations.
  • All 256 bytes, even ASCII NUL bytes, are always read and processed from
    input file with no adverse effect, even if GNU extensions are disabled.
    However, System V ptx does not accept 8-bit characters, a few control
    characters are rejected, and the tilde ‘~’ is also rejected.
  • Input line length is only limited by available memory, even if GNU
    extensions are disabled. However, System V ptx processes only the first 200
    characters in each line.
  • The break (non-word) characters default to be every character except all
    letters of the underlying character set, diacriticized or not. When GNU
    extensions are disabled, the break characters default to space, tab and
    newline only.
  • The program makes better use of output line width. If GNU extensions are
    disabled, the program rather tries to imitate System V ptx, but still,
    there are some slight disposition glitches this program does not completely
    reproduce.
  • The user can specify both an Ignore file and an Only file. This is not
    allowed with System V ptx.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Previous: Output formatting in ptx, Up: ptx invocation   [Contents][Index]

