Next: rm invocation, Previous: install invocation, Up: Basic operations   [
Contents][Index]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

11.4 mv: Move (rename) files

mv moves or renames files (or directories). Synopses:

mv [option]… [-T] source dest
mv [option]… source… directory
mv [option]… -t directory source…

  • If two file names are given, mv moves the first file to the second.
  • If the --target-directory (-t) option is given, or failing that if the last
    file is a directory and the --no-target-directory (-T) option is not given,
    mv moves each source file to the specified directory, using the sources’
    names.

mv can move any type of file from one file system to another. Prior to version
4.0 of the fileutils, mv could move only regular files between file systems.
For example, now mv can move an entire directory hierarchy including special
device files from one partition to another. It first uses some of the same code
that’s used by cp -a to copy the requested directories and files, then
(assuming the copy succeeded) it removes the originals. If the copy fails, then
the part that was copied to the destination partition is removed. If you were
to copy three directories from one partition to another and the copy of the
first directory succeeded, but the second didn’t, the first would be left on
the destination partition and the second and third would be left on the
original partition.

mv always tries to copy extended attributes (xattr), which may include SELinux
context, ACLs or Capabilities. Upon failure all but ‘Operation not supported’
warnings are output.

If a destination file exists but is normally unwritable, standard input is a
terminal, and the -f or --force option is not given, mv prompts the user for
whether to replace the file. (You might own the file, or have write permission
on its directory.) If the response is not affirmative, the file is skipped.

Warning: Avoid specifying a source name with a trailing slash, when it might be
a symlink to a directory. Otherwise, mv may do something very surprising, since
its behavior depends on the underlying rename system call. On a system with a
modern Linux-based kernel, it fails with errno=ENOTDIR. However, on other
systems (at least FreeBSD 6.1 and Solaris 10) it silently renames not the
symlink but rather the directory referenced by the symlink. See Trailing
slashes.

Note: mv will only replace empty directories in the destination. Conflicting
populated directories are skipped with a diagnostic.

The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.

‘-b’
‘--backup[=method]’
   
    See Backup options. Make a backup of each file that would otherwise be
    overwritten or removed.

‘-f’
‘--force’
   
    Do not prompt the user before removing a destination file. If you specify
    more than one of the -i, -f, -n options, only the final one takes effect.

‘-i’
‘--interactive’
   
    Prompt whether to overwrite each existing destination file, regardless of
    its permissions. If the response is not affirmative, the file is skipped.
    If you specify more than one of the -i, -f, -n options, only the final one
    takes effect.

‘-n’
‘--no-clobber’
   
    Do not overwrite an existing file; silently do nothing instead. If you
    specify more than one of the -i, -f, -n options, only the final one takes
    effect. This option is mutually exclusive with -b or --backup option.

‘-u’
‘--update’
   
    Do not move a non-directory that has an existing destination with the same
    or newer modification timestamp. If the move is across file system
    boundaries, the comparison is to the source timestamp truncated to the
    resolutions of the destination file system and of the system calls used to
    update timestamps; this avoids duplicate work if several ‘mv -u’ commands
    are executed with the same source and destination. This option is ignored
    if the -n or --no-clobber option is also specified.

‘-v’
‘--verbose’
   
    Print the name of each file before moving it.

‘--strip-trailing-slashes’
   
    Remove any trailing slashes from each source argument. See Trailing slashes
    .

‘-S suffix’
‘--suffix=suffix’
   
    Append suffix to each backup file made with -b. See Backup options.

‘-t directory’
‘--target-directory=directory’
   
    Specify the destination directory. See Target directory.

‘-T’
‘--no-target-directory’
   
    Do not treat the last operand specially when it is a directory or a
    symbolic link to a directory. See Target directory.

‘-Z’
‘--context’
   
    This option functions similarly to the restorecon command, by adjusting the
    SELinux security context according to the system default type for
    destination files and each created directory.

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Next: rm invocation, Previous: install invocation, Up: Basic operations   [
Contents][Index]

